For an explanation to be good isn’t for it to be correct.
Sometimes the right explanations are bad ones.
A story will make this clear.
I’m on a X. The Y is doing Z. A mystery! “What on Earth does he have to do Z about?” I ask myself. His job is so A, and his life must therefore be such a B. But then I remember that, just a minute ago, a C gave him fifty D as an E. So I have my explanation: “he just came into a lot of F.”
But here is the very different explanation tendered by my seatmate Gus, who, in addition to being G, is also completely H. “The Y is a I. This morning he J somebody who, by coincidence, had the name K. K (the L, not the M) is on the D. So when the Y saw those D, he immediately thought of that morning’s J. The J was a particularly enjoyable one; the Y is remembering the fun he had, and that’s why he’s doing Z.”
Gus and I have access to the same empirical data. (Gus hasn’t read the Y’s diary; he doesn’t know the Y any more intimately than I do; and so on.) And Gus doesn’t have some sort of psychic gift that would give him access to otherwise unknowable facts about the Y’s mind that would legitimize his explanation. Indeed, a belief that he has such a gift isn’t even among Gus’s many delusions. Nor does he have any good reason; even if, for argumentative purposes, we grant him his delusions; to believe what he believes. But Gus is right. His explanation is correct down to the last detail.
Given that it turned out to be correct, should we say that, despite first appearances, Gus’s explanation is not a bad one? No! It’s a datum that it’s bad. It’s a bad explanation that turned out to be correct. Thus, for an explanation to be a good one isn’t for it to be correct.
But a short extension of our story illustrates the even stronger principle that for an explanation to be a good one isn’t even for it to be likely to be correct. Let W be the real world and let W∗ be a hypothetical world where we have the exact same experiences that we have in W, but in which the Guss of the world are always right. In W∗, it’s because P is personally Q R to millions of S that they suddenly appear in T round the globe; it’s because the U is personally V W that they disappear from under X; and so on.
Explanatory goodness is a relationship, not between explanations and reality, but between explanation and data. The relations that hold in W∗ between theory and data coincide with those holding in W. That’s why the ones that are wrong in W∗ are no less good on that account. What is it that, in W∗, makes wrong explanations be good? In general, what is the relationship that good theories bear with respect to the data?