 But Sellars is also making a stronger claim. The significance of a quale – what it truly or falsely tells the subject, leaving aside what the subject knows in virtue of having it – is not given; it is not fixed, at least not by the intrinsic properties of the quale. The quale has to be filtered through background knowledge first: then the quale gives the subject a determinate message about the external world. So the epistemic significance of a quale is not fixed or ‘given’; it is a variable function of background empirical knowledge. Sellars is against the idea that ‘raw sensations’ (as he puts it) by themselves have a fixed or ‘given’ message and, thus, don’t need the co-operation of ulterior knowledge to tell us anything, whether true or false, about the outside world. A fortiori Sellars is also against the idea that, by themselves, raw sensations constitute knowledge of the external world.
        So there are two myths of the given. (i) What is given is epistemic, i.e. constitutes knowledge. (ii) What is given is representational. i.e. it tells us anything, whether true or false. Sellars made a compelling case against both myths. 
      It should be made clear that, according to Sellars, what is false is not the belief that there is a given. Obviously the perceiver is passive in some respects; some things are given to him. What is false is the belief that the given is epistemic, i.e. constitutes knowledge, and also (more radically) that what is given is even representational. 
         I believe that, in An Essay Towards a New Theory of Vision (1709), George Berkeley made essentially the same points that Sellars would make, over two hundred years later, in Empiricism and the Philosophy of Mind. Further Berkeley’s attack on the given is more perspicuous, more radical, and more cogent than Sellars’ version of it. 
      Sellars argument is basically this. Bob is in a tie shop where there is unusual lighting. Bob is looking at a tie. Because the lighting conditions are unusual, he cannot tell whether he is looking at a green tie or a blue tie. So he takes the tie outside, where the lighting conditions are ‘standard’, and Bob sees that it is (say) blue. Bob then goes back inside and realizes what a blue tie looks like under the lighting conditions that prevail there. He repeats this procedure with ties of many different colors. So, in due course, Bob doesn’t have to leave the shop to tell what a color a tie is; he can just see that it is blue or green – even though a blue tie in the tie shop gives off the same appearance as a green tie under more standard lighting conditions. 
     Let Post-Bob be our word for Bob after he has ‘acclimatized’ to the unusual lighting conditions in the tie-shop. And let Pre-Bob be our term for Bob before that acclimatization. Confronted with a tie in the tie-shop, Post-Bob can see that it is blue or green – even though it doesn’t look the way that blue or green ties look ordinarily. But obviously when Post-Bob sees what color a tie is, a great deal of back-ground empirical knowledge is at work. He knows a great deal about the conditions of perception that obtain in the tie-shop, and how they affect the appearance of the ties. Of course, if Post-Bob is to ascertain what color a given tie is, he will simply look at it. But from this perception, Post-Bob is able to upload the color of the tie only because, operating in his cognitive background, there is a fair amount of existing empirical knowledge. 
    There are two ways that this lesson can be generalized. (Sellars leaves implicit these much needed generalizations.) It can be shown to apply to sense-perception under standard conditions (i.e. under conditions where the lighting, and so on, is relatively ‘normal’). It can also be shown to apply to sensory apprehensions of properties other than colors. 
