For an explanation to be good isn't for it to be correct. Sometimes the right explanations are bad ones. A story will make this clear. I'm on a bus. The bus driver is smiling. A mystery! 'What on Earth does he have to smile about?' I ask myself. His job is so boring, and his life must therefore be such a horror.' But then I remember that, just a minute ago, a disembarking passenger gave him fifty $100 bills as a tip. So I have my explanation: 'he just came into a lot of money.' But here is the very different explanation tendered by my seatmate Gus, who, in addition to being unintelligent, is also completely insane. 'The bus-driver is a CIA assassin. This morning he killed somebody who, by coincidence, had the name Benjamin Franklin. Benjamin Franklin (the statesman, not the murder victim) is on the $100 bill. So when the bus driver saw those bills, he immediately thought of that morning's murder. The murder was a particularly enjoyable one; the bus driver is remembering the fun he had, and that's why he's smiling.' Gus and I have access to the same empirical data. (Gus hasn't read the bus driver's diary; he doesn't know the bus driver any more intimately than I do; and so on.) And Gus doesn't have some sort of psychic gift that would give him access to otherwise unknowable facts about the bus driver's mind that would legitimize his explanation. Indeed, a belief that he has such a gift isn't even among Gus's many delusions. Nor does he have any good reason—even if, for argumentative purposes, we grant him his delusions—to believe what he believes. But Gus is right. His explanation is correct down to the last detail. Given that it turned out to be correct, should we say that, despite first appearances, Gus's explanation is not a bad one? No! It's a datum that it's bad. It's a bad explanation that turned out to be correct. Thus, for an explanation to be a good one isn't for it to be correct. But a short extension of our story illustrates the even stronger principle that for an explanation to be a good one isn't even for it to be likely to be correct. Let W be the real world and let W* be a hypothetical world where we have the exact same experiences that we have in W, but in which the Gus's of the world are always right. In W*, it's because Santa Claus is personally delivering gifts to millions of people that they suddenly appear in living rooms round the globe; it's because the Tooth Fairy is personally collecting teeth that they disappear from under pillows; and so on. Explanatory goodness is a relationship, not between explanations and reality, but between explanation and data. The relations that hold in W* between theory and data coincide with those holding in W. That's why the ones that are wrong in W* are no less good on that account. What is it that, in W*, makes wrong explanations be good? In general, what is the relationship that good theories bear with respect to the data?